Vinny Magalhaes had to withdraw last minute from his super fight with Gordon Ryan @gordonlovesjiujitsu in the UFC Grappling Invitational @ufcfightpass after complications with his weight cut (UFC set a limit of 235 pounds). He has been replaced by the great Nicky Rod @nickyrod247 - two time ADCC silver medalist and one of the very best professional grapplers in the game today. Originally Mr Rodriguez was to compete in the Open Weight Tournament, but he stepped in last minute after the UFC was informed of Mr Magalhaes situation. This will be a rematch - the two former team mates met in the final of the ADCC World Championships earlier this year - Gordon Ryan won that encounter via heel hook, but this is a new match. Importantly, it will be fought under different rules - EBI Rules - Nicky Rod recently won the EBI Open Weight tournament in spectacular fashion - every match via submission, showing the world his prowess in this rule set. As former sparring partners each knows the others game very well land what they have to do to win! The size, speed, flexibility, mobility and strength advantage will go to Nicky Rod, he weighed in around 230 pounds to Mr Ryan around 220, but Gordon Ryan is a true master of technique and uses it to exert unprecedented levels of control over even the most physically formidable opponents - keep your eyes on this match!! Mr Rodriguez’s place in the tournament will be taken by the very talented young South African grappler Luke Griffith @luke_griffithjj He takes his place among a very talented field under EBI rules in matches of eight minute duration. In addition Dan Manasoiu @jiujitsugiant will take on brilliant Brazilian world champion Ricardo Evangelista @ricardoevangelista - both men are huge heavyweights well over 250 pounds but who move like lightweights! The great MMA fighter Miesha Tate @mieshatate will take on Bia Mesquite  @biamesquitajj one of the greatest female grapplers of this era in the co main event superfight! This will be a great event hosted by the @ufc It is wonderful to see the worlds premier MMA organization getting involved in professional grappling! Tune in tomorrow night!!
