Jiu jitsu takedowns: When you look at takedowns in jiu jitsu you see several things. First, the general execution is generally at a lower level than grappling arts that focus primarily on takedowns such as Judo and Wrestling. This is probably due to the simple fact that historically takedowns have been under emphasized in training due to the fact that they score relatively low in a sport who primary emphasis is pins that enable striking on the ground and submission holds. In addition, Jiu jitsu athletes have the option of sitting to guard if they feel their opponent has superiority in takedowns, this always de incentivizes takedown training, since the better you get, the more like your opponent will simply sit to guard and render all your takedown training null and void. I am confident that a change of training culture will in time improve dramatically the execution of takedowns in jiu jitsu as athletes begin to realize it is a very effective to score and ensure top position. Secondly, very often a takedown will be performed that would definitely score under wrestling or judo rules, but which scores zero points in Jiu jitsu. This is the more important difference as this has nothing to do with culture and is the result of the rules of the sport. The scoring criteria of jiu jitsu are always based on POSITIONAL CONTROL rather than the takedown itself. As such, it is the AFTERMATH of the takedown that counts, rather than the actual takedown. You have to be able to satisfy control criteria for three seconds after the takedown. This is difficult to do against a skilled opponent. As such, the art of takedowns in jiu jitsu has a focus on what happens immediately after a takedown. Most grappling styles award points for the takedown itself, and the more amplitude in the takedown, the greater the score. Jiu jitsu does not reward amplitude, only control after the takedown. This creates a need for a significantly different approach for takedowns, where typically the takedown itself will look like it is borrowed from wrestling or judo, but the scoring aftermath looks like a jiu jitsu positional scramble. This is the insight you must carry into your standing training.
