Victory in Dallas!! Team New Wave had a great day at the big ADCC Dallas Open yesterday. The event had well over a thousand competitors from all over the nation and once again showed the impressive work @mojassim80 is doing building a grass roots competition league that enables athletes to compete under the ADCC rule set in preparation for ADCC trials and the Olympics of grappling - ADCC itself. There were many outstanding athletes and many outstanding performances. Our team was able to show the fruits of their hard training in preparation taking four gold medals and many other medals and winning the Adult Team Award with a score almost double the next highest team . Current ADCC champion @giancarlobodoni Giancarlo Bodoni surprised everyone by signing up last minute and took gold with a masterful display both standing and on the ground. @tazagarami Oliver Taza had a truly impressive day. He was in the most stacked division of the event which featured many outstanding athletes who’d been to ADCC or medaled at trials. Not only did he win gold - he did so with a submission rate of almost 85% - a truly impressive performance in the most competitive division of the event! @helenajiujitsugirl Helena Crevar showcased here devastating submission arsenal once again in both teenage and adult divisions - winning double gold with a submission rate over 90%! South African brother and sister @hxnnah_jade Hannah Griffith and @luke_griffithjj Luke Griffith took three gold medals between the family. Hannah won her weight division with a great display of positional prowess. Luke won double gold with a crushingly dominant 100% submission rate performance in two divisions in a very memorable performance, showcasing his impressive technical development and powerful submission arsenal. It was great seeing so many competitors and supporters at the event - perhaps most impressive of all was the depth of talent on display. There were many cases of unknown athletes defeating prominent athletes proving that there are many emerging talents in this fast growing sport!
