The story of Rory MacDonald and his walkout music: One of the most distinctive elements of professional fighting is the fighter walkout. Often they are moments of high drama and suspense. One of their central features is music. Fighters select a song that embodies their spirit and attitude as they go out to do battle. Rory MacDonald grew up listening to Slayer and Scorpion, by the time I started working with him as he trained next to Georges St Pierre his preferred listening material was crazy death metal that could scare a grizzly bear away. It was always something of a mystery to me then, that when he would go out to fight his music would be some really low powered garbage that just sounded awful. Finally he told me the story why. A long time ago he lost his phone. That phone number was the one kept by the UFC staff responsible for fighter walkout music selection. Some random guy found the phone and started using it. The UFC texted him, thinking it was Rory, and asked what walkout music he wanted. The random guy gave a song recommendation. We will never know if this random guy either had a genuine sense of humor or whether he just had awful taste in music. Either way, it ensured Rory went out on multiple occasions to hilariously bad songs 😂😂 It culminated one night were Rory went out in Philadelphia where his opponent came out to The Rocky Theme, which of course got the Philadelphia crowd absolutely amped up! Then Rory came out to MC Hammer Can’t Touch This 😂😂😂 The look of dumbfounded horror on Rory’s face was priceless as he went out to a song he never wanted and the crowd reaction was total LOL Wut? This was the straw that broke the camels back and Rory finally got his groove back by making sure his music got selected properly 😂😂 If you were the guy who found the phone - how far would you have gone with the music selection? For sure I would have requested It’s Raining Men 😂😂😂 That would have been enough to ruin any fighters career 😂😂😂 On my drive home home tonight for sure I’m going to drop some MC Hammer in honor of that unknown comedian - break out the baggy pants and let’s go! 😂😂
